>> Bianca Gandolfo: I'm gonna quickly
go over some of the solution code,
which you have access to.
You may be asking where can I find that,
Bianca?
Does your link even work?
Well, we will find out now.
Here's we go.
Are you ready?
One, two, three.
Here we are.
You might notice it looks
almost exactly the same
except this is a solution
branch from that repo.
Feel free to do pull requests to this
branch if you wanna add different
solutions, that's always cool.
This is an open source repo,
so feel free to contribute.
All right, so where were we?
We were at stacks.
What do you want to do first,
stack or cue?
Which one did you guys do first?
>> Speaker 2: Do stack first.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Stack first?
All right, let's take a look.
All right, so
here's just our stack implementation.
So we have the ability to set
a capacity if you'd like,
this will allow your stack to overflow.
So we have our storage,
we have an empty object, and
then we have a counter in here.
So we have our push, it takes a value.
If this._count is less than the capacity,
right?
This is a software overflow.
Then you're gonna increment count, or
actually you're going to, it starts
at 0 and then it increments after.
And we're gonna add it to our storage,
yeah?
This look familiar to how you guys did it?
Anyone do it differently?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Anyone
do it differently?
Everyone get to this part?
Thumbs, middle thumbs, down thumb,
okay, a lot of people didn't.
Okay, no worries,
I'll just kind of review.
And then remember try to
do it on your own but
don't look at the solution
at the same time.
That's my only request.
And I say that because I care about you
and your effective use of your time.
Cool.
So our push.
We are gonna just check
that we're not overflowing.
If we aren't then we're just
going to use our counter.
And save it there.
We're gonna return this._count.
This is the same implementation
the the array does,
so if you push into an array,
it's gonna return the length of the array.
So, that's why we're doing that.
And then otherwise,
we're like stack overflow, stop, right?
So, we have pop.
Here we are.
We are saving the value here.
We're gonna delete it.
And, again,
this._count is gonna have a reference to
the last index plus one.
Yeah, thumbs on what I mean by that.
Okay, we're gonna decrement it first,
that's why the minus minus
is at the beginning.
It decrements first so
if count is five before we run this line,
it's gonna be four.
Yeah, this could be confusing to
people when the decrement is at
the beginning versus sometimes
you see it at the end.
The beginning it decrements first,
at the end it decrements after.
So it'll return a number and
then decrement.
All right, so we have two things
that you can do in this moment.
One, you can repeat what I just described
or two you can ask me a question.
>> Speaker 2: Repeat.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, let's hear it.
>> Speaker 2: Okay so if you put the
incremeter or the decrementer in front of
the value, it will use the value
after that has happened to it.
If you do it after,
it will use the value and then do that.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yes, awesome.
We're good on that?
You have a thing and
you're doing this with your eyebrows.
Is that how you just look or
are you thinking.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 3: I don't know, I guess I'd
rather avoid, seems like you're asking for
bugs if you're using features, but okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
it'a a stylistic choice for sure.
But this, so this is like I'm judging you
and your coding style or I'm confused.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, I'm judging you.
[LAUGH]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay, that's fair.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: All right, cool.
All right, I will say it one more time.
Because the live streamers say so
and so I will do it.
So I'm highlighting this piece of code,
it's a little bit confusing
because sometimes, and I'll just
open my side here, sometimes we see
x plus plus,
sometimes we see x minus minus, right?
Or what we're looking at here is
something equivalent to this, yeah?
So the difference between these two, and
this is mostly like JavaScript trivia, but
it is important,
is the order of operations.
So each of these expressions is
a shortcut that does two things.
The first thing it does is it
either adds or or it minuses one.
The second thing it does
is it returns a number.
The difference is between the order
in which those operations happen.
So for this one, where the operator
is to the right of the variable,
it is going to
return the number first, and then it's
going to either increment or decrement.
So for example, if x ==3 at
the beginning, yeah?
Or let's say 4.
Then we will, so it'll be 4 and
it will return 4 and
then it will decrement it,
and it will be 5, yeah?
Cool.
For example for this one the number in
the brackets if this is in some brackets
will first be four and then the next time
you loop around it'll be three, yeah?
Cool.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Great.
And the difference here, for this one,
is that first it's gonna do the operation,
and then return it.
So this will actually return 5,
while this one returns 4.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
and this one will return 3,
while this one still returns 4.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: All right, great.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay, where were we?
Okay, so, we're decrementing it first.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Then
passing in the integer.
Yeah, okay.
Then we delete it and
then we say if this._count
is less than zero, make it zero and
you're gonna return the value.
Cool.
This is for
the case where we pop off the last one.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool, so this is peek.
And this is just gonna show us
the last one that's about to pop.
So this is if you want to look at the last
one but you don't want to pop it off.
Count, that's easy, return this._count.
And then we have the MinStack which I'm
not gonna give you a walk through because
a lot of you guys haven't done it yet.
But you have the code here.
It's really fun.
It's
not something you're
gonna do in real life.
We were just talking
about this in the chat.
You're not gonna ever, well,
actually I'm thinking of a different one.
But we were talking about something else.
Nevermind.
Anyway, MinStack,
I want you guys to implement it before
I show you the solutions, okay?
Cool, any questions about this?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: This
is pretty straightforward.
So who here kind of had a gap?
So I was just talking with Maurice a few
minutes ago, and we were talking about
this sort of gap when that happens,
when I'm talking about this thing,
talking about this thing,
theoretically it sounds great.
But if you've never actually implemented
it before, it was like, God,
I understand it.
But then when it gets to the code,
there's a little bit of
a difficulty moving through.
Anyone else experience that?
Yeah?
Cool.
So this is the learning moment, right?
This is what you're here for.
It's like, that's the part where you're
like, this is where I haven't done this
thing before, and I'm gonna grow
by pushing through that limit.
So that's awesome.
If you're already experiencing that,
your brain is gonna be like whoa through
all of that, so that's exciting.
All right, so where are we?
We want to look at queue.
We'll do this pretty quickly.
It's not super,
super different than before except for,
in this case,
we're gonna have a head and a tail.
And I think that's gonna be for
a different implementation.
So we're gonna enqueue, so
we're gonna add something to the list.
So if it is not above the capacity,
you're gonna add the value.
And then you're gonna increment the tail.
Return this._count,
otherwise you reach the max capacity.
Really similar to our other one.
Great, so when we DQ, again,
we need to save our element.
We have our pointer to a head.
We're gonna delete it.
And then if the head is less than
the tail, increment the head and return.
Peak very similar.
Then to the other one, count as well.
It's gonna be the difference
between the tail and the head.
Awesome.
Everything else you should spend
time implementing on your own when
you get a second later today, cool?
And we'll go through it tomorrow morning.
All right,
any questions about this implementation?
>> Speaker 3: Why do we
use underscore before?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
why don't we use underscore?
So that means it's basically
like a private variable.
We don't really have this
concept of a private variable,
it's basically telling other engineers,
hey this is my interface that I created.
Don't mess with this directly.
Only mess with it in the interface that
I created which is with these methods.
Does that make sense?
It's like saying it's private,
but it's not actually private.
You could change them anywhere,
but it's a mark to not do that.
Do you have something?
>> Speaker 2: A remark on the chat
which I think you might address.
Victoria's asking or saying,
I don't know what O(1) means.
So I'm guessing, that is what I came for
was to learn what that Greek
complex trig looking syntax means.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep, so yep that's
big on notation and this is here just for
your reference.
But we'll get into that,
maybe by the end of the day but
probably first thing tomorrow
depending on how things go.
Yeah, we're gonna get into that.
Right now we're just one step at a time,
yeah.